2026_02_19 Roadmap
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
PACKAGES:
	angle
	audio
	kv5
	sugar
	third-party/odin-aseprite  (I'd love to reduce this code.)
	third-party/odin-wayland   (kinda fine with the cost. It's just Linux.)

DEPENDENCIES:
	audio/windows = XAudio2.dll
	sugar/linux = odin-wayland (source)
	angle/macos = libangle.dll


package: angle
status:  nearly complete
notable: maybe distribute separately with a vendored angle dll

package: audio
status:  missing non-windows platforms.

package: kv5
status:  nearly complete
notable: largey untested/unused

package: sugar
status:  it's complicated
	windows:
	linux:   almost non-existent proof-of-concept
	macos:   no scaling and other finer things.
	web:     status unknown.

// I think it's a bad idea.
Hiding state in single-threaded libraries with globals {
	A context pointer is not needed if a global singleton is kept in the package.
	The consumer can initialize and own that memory, but they'll need to be aware of it.
	It can cut down on arguments.

	```
	package foo

	g: ^Module_Implicit_State

	Module_Implicit_State :: struct {
		...
	}

	init :: proc (mem: ^Module_Implicit_State) {
		g = mem
		// set up mem.
	}

	do_a_lot :: proc () {
		// use `g` to great effect.
	}


	```
}

So ideally you'd just pass the context manually to each proc. {
	foo.do_a_lot(globals.foo)
	foo.do_a_lot()
	globals.foo->do_a_lot()

	^ it's just not different enough to matter.
}

That said, you can test module boundaries if you've got a v-table.
I do think that's a useful capability, but I'm not sure _how_ useful.
Like, I can just have a surrogate "test" vtable for a testing build.
globals.foo->do_a_lot()

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Sugar
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0. Use a context pointer. Name it... Module, Memory, Context, State, Instance.
1. Make sure platform-dependent stuff is tucked away.
2. Make `angle` an optional dependency.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Frame
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0. Prefix all files.
1. Flatten sugar in-place. input_
2. Flatten audio in-place. audio_
3. Prefix "framework" to:  frame_
4. Rename "Entity" -> "Handle"
