2026_03_12_water.md

On Designing Water

# Math regularly inspires and energizes me
{
	Discovering convolution and the Fourier Series/Transform has been invigorating.
	It reminds me of how inspired I felt when I was in my math courses in college.
}

# My process is a slow one
{
	I trace the steps of derivation, which is an optional tax.
	I seek greater leverage over problems, higher creative freedom.
	But I have left no time to express and produce something worth playing.
}


I've learned:
	- Fourier treated functions like vectors. He introduces the concepts of
	    orthogonality and transformation (inner dot product) between functions.
	- These are multi-dimensional functions of time and space|frequency.
	- e^-n can express trig functions. Crazy.
	- Fourier transforms arise from taking the Series from a 0..1 period to
	    infinity in an effort to gain more generality (nonperiodic phenomena.)
	    May imply that thinking in terms of the series is simpler for periodics.
	- Signal processing is my next mathematical frontier, and many people I look
	    up to have a background in it. (e.g. Inigo Quilez)

Approaches into completing the feature and gaining understanding of the topic:
	1. Ping pong between them.
	2. Cheat the impl, put off learning the math.
	3. Master the math, then implement

# What am I missing to answer the question of whether my approach is reasonable?
{
	I want to model the boat as a set of waves left by the "dent" of the boat.
	For a moment in time delete the boat and view the cavity left behind.

	X-axis examination:
		waves collapse into the cavity left by the boat.

	Z-axis examination:
		The boat ramps off of its own dent forward, which shoves the water's surface
		  forward in-line with the boat's motion. Truly carving a path forward.

	Y-axis examination:
		The hull pressing into the water under the weight of the craft and rider
			create potential energy for the water to rise with. Updraft.
			Essentially a convolution of the waveform of the hull against the form of gravity.
			Assuming gravity is a constant and uniform force-field, which seems safe at
			this scale, it's a square-wave convoluted with the hull-shape.

	I have an understanding of these shapes, but I don't know how to translate it
	  to some sort of verifiable simulation or mathematical expression.
} => {
	I think I'm missing the theory _and_ application, and I can work from either end.
	I've watched 5 Stanford lectures on Fourier Series/Transformation.
	I know that I'm missing:
	 - ordinary differential equations
	 - calculus refresher
	 - application/rules of imaginary numbers
	 - computing approaches to convolution and fourier analysis/synthesis
} => {
	However!
	I could probably effectively use some sample code at this point to get a demo.
	That wouldn't mean I understand anything, but I know enough to apply it now.
}

# My potential approaches after reflecting {
	1. Implement the FFT route, then modify it for wake (synthesizing waves)
	2. Restricted-2D iWave approach, potentially skipping FFT for convolution.

	Both approaches have risks:
	 - The FFT is meant to describe an abstract ocean, not a coast or surface-ripples.
	 - The Convolution approach seems to yield medium-frequency detail.

	There's the iWave sample code in the Tessendorf paper as a starting point,
		whereas FFT is more of a learning topic for me, but I get the concept.

	How often is the FFT evaluated? The paper implies it's done on a CPU, 
	but is are there potential benefits from doing it on the GPU?

	Well, 
}